# Preface

## The Place of Malayalam in the Modern World

Malayalam, along with its older sister language Tamil, are the two major members of the South Dravidian subgroup of the Dravidian language family. This language family, is to date attested solely within the Indian subcontinent. Some 22 separate languages have been identified as members of the Dravidian language family. A couple of far-flung minor members are still spoken in Pakistan and Nepal, but all of the other languages are found in South India. Dravidian is usually classified into three main branches: North, Central, and South Dravidian. Malayalam and Tamil comprise two of the four major Dravidian languages. The others are Kannada and Telugu, the official languages of the South Indian states of Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh respectively. Until recently, it was thought that the Dravidian language family had no relatives outside India, but careful work by David McAlpin has produced evidence that Elamite, a little known dead language of the Arabian peninsula, of which only some inscriptions survive, may also be of Dravidian stock.

Whatever its history outside the subcontinent, the Dravidian language family is acknowledged to have had a tremendous influence on the language of the Indo-Aryan invaders who began penetrating North India from Iran before 1500 B.C. As they gradually conquered and settled the whole of North India, the various forms of Sanskrit spoken by these Indo-European immigrants - cousins of the early Greeks, Romans, and other predecessors of the Germanic and Slavic peoples - eventually took on some of the salient characteristics of the Dravidian languages with which they came into contact. Among these assimilated features were retroflex sounds, and a number of the grammatical features of Malayalam covered in these lessons.

Malayalam, itself, is recognized from inscriptional evidence to have existed as a separate language from the older Tamil since the ninth or tenth century A.D. It has a literature dating from the thirteenth century. Until recently, its main genres were those of translated Hindu epics and lyric poetry. The last century has seen the development of both serious and popular modern genres such as the essay, short story, novel, detective and love stories, travelogue, and the like. The success of these newer literary genre was primarily due to the spread of mass education in Kerala and the high literacy rates (100% in some parts of the state), which it engendered. The same trend is in all of the state languages in India, but Malayalam is so far unique in terms of the degree of mass participation in literacy. House servants, peons, boatmen, and laborers read the daily papers just as avidly as do professionals, businessmen, civil servants, and educators.Because of this trend, literacy skills in Malayalam have become more and more crucial for a scholar to establish rapport and credibility if he intends to study or do research in Kerala.

Throughout India during the British rule, English was the language of most education above the primary level, was required in all administration above the district level, and was the dominant language in the print media. Nearly every educated person in those days, even those trained in the non-English medium Sanskritic or Quranic schools and colleges, could read, write, and speak English with near native fluency. This was true as much in the princely states of Travancore and Cochin, which made up much of what is today Kerala, as in those areas where the British ruled directly.

This pattern held for some time after Independence in 1947, but the 1960s and 1970s have witnessed virulent grass roots movements in favor of vernacular medium education. As a result, most state-run schools switched to the official' state language as medium of instruction. A similar change took place in a good number of universities, particularly at the undergraduate level. This changeover in all but a limited number of exclusive schools to the regional language has meant that many people in Kerala today have received most of their education in Malayalam.

At the same time, the various state governments of India have progressively brought in the regional language for use in more and more areas of administration. In most cases, bodies of scholars were set up to develop the new vocabulary needed for the language to function in these new areas. Concurrent with these other developments, vernacular press readership has gone up dramatically, while English language press readership has remained relatively constant. Malayalam newspapers have the highest circulation figures of any one-state regional language in the country, exceeded only by those for Hindi, which is both the national language and the official language of five states with a combined population many times that of Kerala's.

As a result of all the foregoing, the present generation in Kerala is far more'at home in Malayalam than in English in all spheres of activity. English is still studied in most schools, but the level of competence of secondary school graduates in it is only slightly better than that which U.S. high school graduates achieve in French. Thus, the proportion of educated persons who can use English effectively has been growing much smaller over the past few decades, and continues to do so. Hopefully this makes it very clear why knowledge of Malayalam is so important for the foreigner wishing to function outside of the tourist hotels and scholarly institutions of Kerala.

The expanding uses of Malayalam have, quite naturally, fostered the growth of the language in terms of the number of styles and registers available in it. Basically, Malayalam can be broken down into formal versus informal styles. The formal style includes the language used in most kinds of writing, as well as that employed in most radio programs and for platform and other public speaking. There are special subvarieties of the language used in government administration, in the courts, in newspaper articles, in newspaper advertisements, in the very popular love stories, and so forth. Each new variety you become acquainted with will require some readjustment by way of learning the special vocabulary and modes of expression unique to it. Once you have learned one subvariety, however, it will be a fairly straightforward matter to branch out to others. This course seeks to give a student command. of the basics of the subvariety used in written description, as well as some exposure to the language of newspaper ads. It was felt that this provides the best all-purpose springboard for later moving into the specialized language of the particular topic, field of inquiry, or style, which may interest the individual student.

 In terms of the spoken language, Malayalam has both regional and social dialects. The various dialects are characterized by different pronunciation, and somewhat distinct vocabulary. The author has personally found the speech of Central Travancore, particularly around Quilon and Kottayam, to be the most easily understood. With some practice, however, you will be able to converse with educated people from all parts of Kerala. Malayalis can usually determine not only which region of Kerala someone is from by his accent and choice of words, but which community he belongs to as well. The speech of Christians, Hindus; and Muslims within a single area are distinctive to the practiced listener. There are even some social dialects within these major groups. Within the Hindus, for example, the speech of Brahmins (the highest caste) is distinct from that of Nayars (a medium high caste), and these, in tum, are distinct from that of the Ezhavas (low caste Hindus).

Contemporary Malayalam, like most fully developed and fully used languages - including American English - is rapidly standardizing today under the influence of popular education and the print and oral media. Education is compulsory through Class Ten in Kerala, usually completed by age sixteen. Malayalam is the medium of instruction for all subjects in a 11 Government Schools at the primary and secondary levels and serves as an informal medium of instruction in some subjects at the pre-university and University levels. Kerala has a long tradition of public education and has had the highest literacy rate in India for many decades. The nearly universal literacy in Kerala supports a vast print media comprised of Newspapers, magazines and books. Malayala Manorama, one of the three major daily newspapers in the state, boasts the highest circulation in India.

As mentioned above, Malayalam has an extremely active literary scene. The creative literature, regarded by most observers as world-class, encompasses poetry, novels, essays and short stories of all types. Many Malayalam authors have won literary awards at the national level and several have been recognized internationally. Malayalam authors have been translated into many languages, both Indian and foreign. The most famous Malayalam novel eChemmeeni (Shrimp) has been translated into eighteen languages. By the same token, literary works from many other languages regularly appear in Malayalam. Some Malayali authors write in more than one language. Madhavikutty, for example, writes in English by the name Kamala Das. The works of Malayali writers enjoy wide circulation, thanks to the numerous private publishing houses in Kerala and a unique writers' cooperative known in Malayalam as SPCS which markets its books through a chain of outlets called National Book Stall. Outside the literary sphere, books on every conceivable subject are published in Malayalam including several encyclopedias.

The oral media in Malayalam includes much live programming from the several Kerala stations of All India Radio and local productions from the Trivandrum studios of the state owned Indian television service (Doordarshan)which are relayed throughout Kerala by several repeater stations. For many years there has been a highly productive Malayalam film industry. Many of the films and some of the actors have won National prizes and several Malayalam films have received international acclaim. For example, the movie ePiravii (Birth), among other prizes, was judged the best film in the Locarno Film Festival. Until recently most Malayalam movies were produced in Madras, but now the industry has come home and the majority of Malayalam films are produced at local studios in Trivandrum. All these organs of education, literature and the media, have a role in making a single standardized spoken variety of the language with diminishing regional and social variations.

Opportunities to use Malayalam are not limited to Kerala State. India's Southwest coast has been a cosmopolitan center of trade for over two thousand years. It has long been a tradition for Malayalis to seek their fortunes elsewhere, often returning to Kerala for retirement. Today there are large numbers of both professional and working class Malayans in other parts of India, particularly in Mumbai, Chennai (formerly Madras) and Delhi. Many have gone as engineers, teachers, civil servants, etc. to the various nations around the Persian Gulf. Signs in Malayalam may be found in the airport in Dubai, and announcements an board Gulf Air flights are sometimes given in Malayalam. It is reported that Malayalam is an essential, if informal, language of administration there.

There are, as well, communities of Malayalis who have settled in other parts of the world. Many of these groups maintain their language, at least for a few generations. The author has found Malayalam speakers, both former indentured laborers and recently emigrated professionals, as far away as Fiji in the South Pacific. Until recently a Malayalam daily newspaper printed in Singapore sold several thousand copies there and in Malaysia. There are now significant communities of Malayali immigrants in many of the large cities of North America, particularly New York, Toronto, Chicago, Houston, Dallas and others. A weekly Malayalam newspaper eMalayalam Patrami enjoys wide circulation throughout the U.S. and Canada. Therefore, Malayalam is not only the official language of Kerala State, perhaps the most scenically and culturally varied part of India, and the mother tongue of 98% of its population, it is also a language of some significance on the international level. Anyone who seeks to learn and use the language will find a warm reception from Malayalis in any comer of the globe. The student will also be exposed to and surely come to appreciate the rich and multifaceted culture for which Malayalam is the vehicle.
