# The Book and How to Use it

## A Brief Overview

This fourth edition is the end product of 20 years of using versions of this text in the classroom. A brief history of the development of the book and the changes made during previous editions may be read in the Acknowledgements section.

This textbook was developed to meet two distinct yet related needs. The more basic goal was to respond to the paucity of teaching materials suited to the needs of U.S. learners of Malayalam, particularly at the university level. Though some materials had previously been produced both in India and in the US, including three sets of materials co-written by the author,none were at all suited to the needs and purposes of American university students. Some of the author's earlier materials were ad hoc in nature, while the 510-page course written for Peace Corps volunteers concentrated on language for daily social interactions only. Both the Peace Corps materials and most of the materials written in India were written in Roman transcription, thus making no serious attempt to teach the Malayalam script or the skills of reading or writing.

The Malayalam materials produced in India by various scholars or teachers were not readily available in the West, and were moreover designed for Indian learners for whom formal explanations of the grammar and culture are largely unnecessary, since many of the grammar and discourse conventions are similar or identical to those found in their own mother tongues. Thus the texts available at that time lacked much of what was essential to the Western learner of the language. A couple more sets of teaching materials have come out in: the intervening 20 years, and some may now be ordered via the Internet. A partial list of these materials appears in the prologue following lesson Twenty-five in this text. These books are, in general, designed to prepare the learner to handle everyday living situations in Malayalam, and as such can be useful adjuncts once the present volume has been thoroughly studied.

This text was conceived and designed to go beyond social conversation to prepare the Western learner to use the language as a research tool. To meet this goal the skills pf literacy in Malayalam are essential, but this is only a beginning. It is also necessary to have some familiarity with the formal style of the language, used in most types of written matter and in platform and other types of formal speaking. This is still a need uniquely met by this text. The irony is that our student audience has grown and diversified, so that the textbook for the Malayalam classes here at Texas must serve two rather different types of students. There are still a number of graduate students who seek out Malayalam as a research tool for their academic work. In the past dozen years or so the Malayalam classes are being taken by increasing numbers of second generation Malayalis who have either been born in North America or spent most of their lives here. They are normally undergraduates whose goals do not include doing academic research in Kerala. They are mainly interested in being able to communicate better with relatives in Kerala and their interest in literacy extends mainly to being able to write letters to grandparents or other non-English-speaking relatives. The majority of lessons containing conversations with friends and family members in the book can still serve their purposes well.

The second need to be met by this textbook was that of a reference grammar which could be used by linguists to glean accurate information about various aspects of the Malayalam language such as its phonology, syntax (grammar), 'semantics, and discourse. This type of reference grammar could serve both specialists in other Dravidian languages, as well as general linguists examining a specific feature in many unrelated languages.

The first edition was used in intensive summer courses at the University of Texas in the 1980s. Some students from those courses did, in fact, go on to use the language as a research tool for masters and doctoral degrees. This success has continued to the present writing. This and the subsequent editions have also been used by instructors and scholars at various universities in the U.S., Canada, and Europe. A number of individuals who were unable to take time away from their jobs in order to journey to Austin to take courses have used the text, in conjunction with the language lab tapes and often a native speaker, for self-study. Subsequent revisions of the text saw the addition of indices, several more appendices, plus corrections and additions to exercises and grammar notes based on the classroom teaching at Texas and on helpful comments from scholars at.other institutions worldwide.

This new Fourth edition contains additional pronunciation and grammatical exercises as well as significant revisions to the grammar notes. Many typos and inconsistencies in formatting have also been corrected in this revision. Additional photographs have been included to furnish topics for classroom conversation.

## Special Features of the Book

The dual purpose nature of the book imposes specific requirements on the overall text while, at the same time necessitating certain compromises. In addition to the 25 graded lessons (described below), a number of the special study aids included here will serve the needs of both students and scholars, while Others will serve one group more than the other.

## Appendices

Several of the appendices should prove useful, though in somewhat different ways, to
all who use the book These include the compendium of Malayalam verb forms, time expressions and List of Opposites in Appendices B, C, and E respectively, which should be a handy reference for anyone using the language in the field. Appendices D and F may be of greater interest to linguists. Both give lists not usually found in a teaching text. Appendix D lists the post-positions in common use and the cases required for the nouns they govern, while Appendix F presents, for the first time anywhere, a rather complete list of verbs and nouns taking the associative case - the most enigmatic of Malayalam's seven cases.

## Indexes

While the Index According to Grammatical Category may be most helpful to linguists
using the text as a reference grammar, two other indexes were prepared specifically as an aid to language students. The Index of Key Malayalam Words allows the student to review the various special uses of certain Malayalam words having more than one grammatical function and/or idiomatic usage. An index of certain English meanings has also been included to help the student who is not used to grammatical terminology to look up things easily.

## Pronunciation Exercises and Casual Speech Descriptions

Special attention must be paid to mastering the many sounds, which have earned Malayalam the reputation of having one of the most complex phonological systems in the world. Exercises have been provided to clarify the significant phonemic contrasts in the language, including the six-way opposition in stops and nasals.. These exercises are designed to aid the student in acquiring the correct pronunciation of the Malayalam sounds as s/he goes along. In addition, some notes describing the sound changes, contractions, assimilations, and deletions which take place when Malayalam is spoken in a casual or rapid manner are addressed by a minilesson explaining the more salient features of casual speech in the language. A much fuller treatment of casual and rapid speech forms in Malayalam are treated in a technical manner in the author's dissertation, "A Phonological Grammar of Style Variation in Malayalam" (University of Wisconsin, 1973).

In general there is an equal emphasis on the acquisition of oral-aural skills and of reading and writing. The former will prepare the student to carry out everyday communication with people in Kerala, and to have a springboard for developing the .ability ·to conduct, or to supervise the conduct of, orally administered research there. The literate skills are intended to make the tremendous body of primary source materials in Malayalam, till now virtually untapped by Western scholars, available to native English-speaking students of a variety of disciplines.

## Syntactic Structures
One aim of the course was to cover all the structures commonly encountered in standard written Malayalam. In writing the notes to explicate these structures a high priority was given to thoroughness in describing structures and their usage. Few things are more mysterious to the learner than encountering a previously learned structure or item in a new and unrecognizable form. To counteract such problems, the grammar notes seek to illustrate all the various forms in which a new structure may be commonly encountered. Considerable space has also been given to explicating the various configurations which structures may take in terms of the order of elements, positive, negative, or question forms, and to the different endings which words may take indicating case role, grammatical function, time relationship to other sentences or clauses, and so on In introducing a new verb form examples have been included of all of the tenses in which it commonly occurs. As a result, the ten or more pages of grammar notes per lesson, when taken together, constitute.a rather more complete (though still imperfect) grammatical sketch of Malayalam than has hitherto been available. Whatever thoroughness has been achieved is intended to serve the needs both of the serious student and of the scholar of linguistics. To keep the student from over generalizing, information is also provided in the grammar notes as to the forms which a structure or grammatical device does not take, or usages that are not permitted by the language.

Grammatical Explanations in themselves are poor teachers. It is only through use that most students can internalize new structures and how to use them. Therefore, in addition to the conversation or written text, exercises are provided in each lesson to move the student along the path of mastery of the major syntactic devices and structures introduced in that lesson. Particular attention was given to proper grading and sufficiency of exercises, completeness and clarity of explanations of the grammar, and, as will be discussed below, descriptions of the culture within which the language operates.

## Discourse Norms

Simply teaching the student the forms of the language does not prepare her/him many way to use them in real-life interactions. The forms themselves have relatively little significance outside of the situations in which they occur. The natural use of language occurs within the framework of rules and conventions followed by speakers of that language. This set of rules and conventions comprises the culture of the speakers of that language. Some of these rules and conventions govern other types of behavior, but many relate directly to what to say when and how to express it. Rules of courtesy, for example, vary from society to society and from language to language. Such things as how to offer food and drink, how to accept an offer, or how to request assistance cannot be directly translated from one language to another. These must be learned for the specific language under study. Rhetorical questions, normally positive in English, are usually negative in Malayalam. Moreover, you must know more than how to form a negative question in order to recognize when it is a real versus a rhetorical one. Particular attention. has been given in these lessons to demonstrate how to produce the appropriate degree of politeness, how to contravene another is false assumption, and the like.

## Sociolinguistic Information
One of the most salient aspects of any society is the social groups, hierarchies, and relationships operating within them. While no attempt was made in these lessons to represent group-based varieties such as regional or communal dialects, considerable attention was devoted to showing the influence of important aspects of the social situation in all groups. One of the many areas where sociolinguistic sensitivity is crucial is in the choice of pronouns and. other ways of addressing and referring to persons. The most relevant factors influencing these choices are the roles of the various participants in the larger society and with respect to one another. Other factors influencing how things are said include: the setting in which the conversation takes place, the function or purpose of the interchange, what has previously been said, and the meaning and intent of the speaker based on all of the above. Therefore, considerable space was devoted to explicating the various circumstances in which a particular form or structure is appropriate and the functions it usually fulfills within spoken dialogue or written discourse, as well as the secondary implications it conveys. Some of this information is left to the student to infer from the conversations while other aspects are treated explicitly.

Considerable space has also been given to explicating the various configurations which structures may take in terms of 1) the permissible order of elements, 2) positive, negative, or question forms, and 3) the different endings which words may take indicating case role, grammatical function, time relationship to other sentences or clauses, and so on. Examples were included for newly introduced verb forms in all of the tenses in which it commonly occurs. As a result, the ten or more pages of grammar notes per lesson, when taken together, constitute a rather more complete (though still imperfect) grammatical sketch of Malayalam than has hitherto been available. Whatever thoroughness has been achieved is intended to serve the needs both of the serious student and of the scholar of linguistics. For the latter there will still be a problem in that all the examples illustrating the rules and principles set forth in the grammar notes are, like all of the Malayalam in the book, written in the Malayalam script.

This is an absolute requirement for pedagogical purposes. Students have a strong tendency to become dependent on a Romanization over the Malayalam script. This often results in a failure to grasp and reproduce the unique character of many Malayalam sounds and in an inability to recognize the significant phonemic contrasts in the language.

## How to Use the Lessons
Each of the 25 lessons contains a vocabulary list, ordered according to sequence of occurrence in the lesson's text. The vocabulary should be memorized, but not till after one has worked through, and probably reread, the conversation or written piece serving as the lesson text. This will provide some initial feeling for context as one tries to memorize the words and phrases. In studying and reviewing the vocabulary lists subsequently, it should be remembered that words out of context have little meaning. The student should, therefore, always recall an instance of where the word has been used - a line in the lesson text, a sentence from an exercise, an example in a grammar note, or a classroom interchange. With this method, items are both more learnable and better retained for most students.

Between the vocabulary and the text of each lesson will be found a Reading Practice exercise. This is designed to train the student to recognize visual patterns. Each exercise focuses on a common graphic patterns resulting from two sources. 1) Grammatical markers, which attach to known vocabulary items, and 2) word groups resulting from the common Malayalam practice of writing two or more words together as a unit. These graphic units should be read as quickly as possible, for eye training, and part of one's review should be to go back and regularly scan the Reading Practice exercises from earlier lessons.

Some six or seven points of grammar or usage are exemplified in each lesson's text. A ll the points are discussed in the grammar notes at the end of the lesson. The more important ones will also be the focus of full exercises containing at least ten items. The lessons have up to nine exercises following the lesson text. These grammar exercises take the form of repetition, response, or transformation drills, whichever has been deemed most appropriate to the point being taught and to the level of the students at the time.

For variety's sake, the order of exercises was occasionally juggled somewhat. In general, however, the fourth exercise contains a group of Malayalam sentences to be read for comprehension. These bring together the new vocabulary and grammar points of the current lesson, as well as building in as much review as possible of forms and structures from earlier lessons. The fifth exercise ordinarily requires English to Malayalam translation. Though the technique of translation was vastly overused in many traditional language courses, and linguists therefore eschewed it for a time, several recent theories of language acquisition, including the author's "systems perspective," suggest that translation from the native language can play some meaningful role in the early stages of second language learning. It must be remembered that second language learning is a process, best viewed as operating along a continuum. At any point along this continuum, certain well-learned structures will already be part of one's active competence, capable of being used without conscious referral to the rules of grammar or to one's mother tongue, while other newly encountered, or less frequently used, structures and forms will still require the laborious process of conscious composition or decoding and, often, of translation.

The sixth exercise, in most lessons, is designed to provide practice in forming appropriate responses to stimuli in Malayalam. This gives the student the opportunity to implement some of the information on appropriateness in the grammar notes and exemplified there and/or in the lesson text. It also tests the student's assimilation of principles exemplified by the text, but not explicitly treated in the notes (see below). Nearly all of the lessons contain an exercise devoted to writing practice. The object of this exercise is to provide practice in mastering the conventions of the Malayalam script, particularly that of joining words together. These writing practice exercises, normally Exercise Seven, give the student practice in activizing the principles and patterns shown in the Reading Practice exercises in the same or previous lessons.

It should be emphasized that beyond the new vocabulary and the structures and forms, many of the lessons contain norms of discourse and cultural information. Some of these are explained in the grammar notes, but others are left to the student's developing intuitive grasp of the language. The dialogues illustrate at least one acceptable way of initiating a particular kind of interaction for a particular purpose, or of how to respond to a given kind of initiation, in a given set of circumstances. They illustrate how to acceptably carry out functions such as making an offer, contradicting another's assertion, giving a scolding, and so on. The student is expected to soak these in while working through and subsequently reviewing the lessons. There are also conventions in spoken and written Malayalam discourse of leaving out those elements which are either clear from the context, or which have been previously stipulated by the same, or another, speaker. All these aspects of "the grammar of discourse" are essential to achieving both passive and active competence in a language. Their mastery will be greatly aided by actual memorization of many of the lesson texts so that they furnish a data base on which the student can later draw, consciously and unconsciously, in new as well as familiar situations.

Finally, many of the lessons contain a Reference List. These lists are intended as study aids to help the student put the grammatical information into an organized form. In general, these need not be memorized, as they are intended to provide an overview of some aspect of the grammar, or of some area of activity, such as newspapers (See Lesson Fourteen).

With this overview of the structure of the lessons, and of the suggested uses of each part in mind, the student should plan to dip into the initial section on the Malayalam Alphabet first. It would be a mistake, however, to work completely through this section before embarking on Lesson One. A passive grasp of the alphabet can be achieved almost overnight. One should then straightaway· begin working through the various parts of Lesson One, beginning with the vocabulary list, as a teacher, or other native speaker reads out the words. Move as quickly as possible into reading the sentences in the conversation as these will give you a more accurate picture of how the words are pronounced in connected speech. Most Malayalis have a habit of artificially stressing the final syllable of a word, sometimes even of a sentence, when reading it out as an isolated item, particularly in the context of teaching. Under most circumstances, the final syllable of a word in Malayalam is never stressed. The student should mentally correct for this if he hears it, or should also ask native speakers to read sentences in connected dialogue wherever possible so as to get the natural stress and rhythm patterns of the language. Only when writing begins should the student look at the tables showing the form and sequence of strokes for the letters, and then only for those needed at the time. Similarly, the tables on conjunct letters need not be studied until individual conjuncts come up in the lessons.

As may be seen, the quantity of material in each lesson is rather substantial. 'It is suggested, therefore, that each lesson be approached as a unit containing several lessons. First the student should work through the text with the aid of the vocabulary as outlined above, but without reference to the grammar notes. After working through the text, then reviewing it one or more times, one should probably next do the Reading Practice. Following that, students should move an to the first grammar exercise. Three or four of the exercises in each lesson are based on the particular grammatical points introduced in that lesson. It is usually good practice to read the grammar note applying to an exercise before working through it, then again after having completed the exercise.

The model(s) provided allow most exercises to be done without referring to the relevant grammar note if desired. This is especially workable in a classroom setting where the teacher can clear up any confusion. It is not recommended that time be taken up by reading the grammar notes in class itself. If students have problems with a specific exercise, the teacher should briefly summarize the relevant grammatical points. In some cases it might prove helpful, either before doing an exercise or when difficulty is encountered, to read through the examples in the relevant grammar note. Detailed study of the notes themselves should be done at home, and then only if they prove helpful.

Studying the grammar is not necessarily helpful for every student of the language. Many students, steeped as they are in Western-style analytic thinking, feel much more comfortable knowing that the forms and structures they are learning fit into an overall scheme of rules and conventions for the language. On the other hand, some students find that the grammatical terms are impenetrable and that the rules only confuse the issue. For such students it will be preferable simply to follow the models provided for the exercises. Thus the lessons can be successfully used by both grammar-addicted and grammar-repelled students. Those in the latter category should at least study the examples in the grammar notes, .if not the explanations.

## As a Reference Grammar
For those who would use this text as a reference source an Malayalam grammar, a word
of explanation is also in order. In trying to make the grammar notes serve two purposes - a teaching grammar for students and a reference grammar for linguists - the results are less than perfect for either one. The notes are, in many cases, too long and detailed, and contain too much grammatical terminology for the language student's purposes. On the other hand, the requirements of clarity, reinforcement, and translation of technical labels into lay terms required to make the notes comprehensible to the student, renders them much longer and more repetitive than is desirable for the linguist. This is particularly true for syntacticians, who would prefer to see the descriptions distilled down into formulae and diagrams, which would probably prove more mysterious than the Malayalam itself to the language learner.

Two additional shortcomings of the text deserve mention which affect the text's overall usefulness from both points of view. First, it was only possible to include one glossary, instead of two as many texts have. The Malayalam-English glossary contains all of the items given in the vocabulary lists of the 25 lessons. It does not include extra items used in the reference lists, appendices, or in the examples in the grammar notes. Before the English meaning, the number of the lesson is given in which the item was originally introduced so that, , if desired, the student may quickly look up a context in which the item appeared. An English Malayalam glossary would have been a useful addition, but there was neither time nor space to prepare and include one. The Index according to English meaning will, however, do much to mitigate this omission.

In addition to the Index According to Grammatical Category, several other devices have been implemented to ease the task of finding specific grammatical information. First of all, the titles of the grammar notes and subheadings within them have been tailored to clearly indicate what they present. All grammar note titles also appear in the Table of Contents so that they may be scanned quickly in order to find a particular topic of interest. In addition, the grammar notes are laced with cross-referencing, citing both the previous and upcoming sections in which the same and related topics are treated..This was expressly done to minimize the need to refer to the index while working through the grammar notes of specific lessons.

Most of the lessons, appendices, and grammar notes have been test-taught during both the intensive summer and normally-paced academic year courses in Malayalam at the University of Texas at Austin. It is hoped that this revised and expanded, and computer- printed course will serve as an even more useful tool to those who will need to learn Malayalam for various purposes, but especially for research and scholarly activity. Any who make use of this text, either as a language course or as a reference grammar, are invited to send their reactions to the author at the address below.

Rodney F. Moag <br/>
Department of Asian Studies<br/>
University of Texas at Austin<br/>
Austin, TX 78712

_Rodney F. Moag is not affiliated with this guide. He is the author of [Malayalam: A University Course and Reference Grammar](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1N7RSPlHCxUV2E2an1NxrLcfpZtOBGTc8/view) on which this guide is based._
